welcome back everyone Laszlo Montgomery
here bringing you China history podcast
episode 235 part 5 in our overview of
the Chinese warlord era that lasted 1916
to 1928 and still lingered on after that
but let's not get too far ahead of
ourselves last time in part 4 I left you
hanging right at the lead up to the
first unwaged early war they should have
called it the ankh way Charlie battle it
only lasted nine days and from here on
out there will be a number of these
military clashes amongst the various
cliques and as we keep walking along the
timeline I'll introduce them to you one
at a time
this onwe surely war was the first last
time in part four we saw how in late
1917 Duan Chi ray and his forces had
gone down into hold on to put an end to
this breakaway provinces ambitions and
independence from the northern Bay on
cleek dominated government but after a
poor showing and failing in the main
mission dawn had to go back to Beijing
with his tail between his legs
he shortly thereafter resigned from the
Premiership and withdrew from the scene
to lick his wounds and ponder the
seething ill feelings he had for
fung-kwok Jung it's how kun and will pay
fool the big three of the chair leak
leak and not just that at the time of
this on way Charlie War duan was really
catching a ton of grief about the terms
of those nishihara loans that whole
transaction was beneficial as it was to
the onwe cleek organization had done
nothing to help his brand the Mukden
incident where japan really lets it all
hang out was still 13 years away but by
accepting that 150 or 200 million yen
loan Duan cheer a really rolled out the
red carpet for the Japanese and northern
China and not just that
you know how back in the Han Dynasty we
always associate the word usurper with
the statesman and later Emperor Wang
bong well for Duan cheer a the word
traitor ended up getting indelibly
attached to his name he caught a lot of
grief as did a lot of others who got too
friendly with the Japanese around this
time by April 1918 that's how couldn´t
had sent forces down to hold on and
accomplished what duan could not the
constitutional protection army the hufa
jin was pushed out and then after
settling scores and hold on the Jurlique
leaked resisting Tuan's continued
insistence on a military solution to
defeat the southern renegade provinces
well rather than take the fight this far
south will pay fool became the man of
the hour by negotiating a peaceful
settlement with the three biggest
warlords down there and we'll get to
them later on these worth Hongqiao in
yunnan luang ting in Guang XI and Chen
Tian Ming in Guangdong and after
everyone was able to come to an
agreement that ratcheted things down a
few notches between the rival northern
and southern governments and that also
spelled the end of the constitutional
protection war in May of 1918 the
southern government led by Sun yat-sen
was reorganized and all the
decision-making spots were filled with
military men I have nothing against the
military but filling all the top
government ministries governorships and
executive branch positions with these
fellows in charge there was no way to
launch a republic if some of you are
getting a bit overwhelmed with all these
Chinese names these warlords and
politicians again go to the website a
tea cup dot media have it all sorted out
for you if you include all the small
fries and medium sized ones there's more
than a hundred of these warlords
generals all over China but there's only
perhaps a dozen that are always
mentioned in the history books and
scholarly papers when talking about this
terrible time this Chinese warlord era
in his World War one comes to an end
China is all carved up mainly between
the southern government led by Sun
yat-sen and his military backers in the
much larger but fractured northern
government and where there used to be
one single voice your insurer Kai's who
spoke for the north well now we have
multiple contenders dawnchere a and his
own way cleek and their military assets
were now in a wrestling match with a
surely clique that up until his death at
the end of 1919 was led by fungoid young
and as fung's health had begun to fade
the mantle of leadership of the Jurlique
League was passed it's how and sows
two deputies were will pay foo and swim
toin Fung
it's how and we'll we looked at briefly
last episode I'll get to swim Tron Fung
in part six or seven these are all top
names from this warlord era
it's how corn had a passion for being a
player in the political arena his
right-hand man will pay foo was more
than military expert so they were a team
now before we dive into the on wage
surely war let me first introduce
another major warlord of this time this
was Jung Tholian of all the Warlord's
I'll introduce he managed to hang on to
power the longest he was at the head of
the fung 10 cleek out in the northeast
Manchuria and one more for you to
remember for the 22 years lasting from
1907 to 1929 when all this was taking
place Lee oning province was known as
fung 10 province chang tahleen ran
Manchuria today's provinces of Heilong
Jiang Chilean and loaning he had his own
set of nicknames but
The Manchurian warlord was what he gets
called most often I would venture to say
with the tiger of Manchuria and second
place from the old marshal he's also
known as to differentiate him from his
son Jang shil yang known as the young
marshal way way in the future
jeonse or Lin was born in hai Chung a
city about midway between Shenyang and
Dalian Lee oning province
he was the third son of a poor family
and only had about 2 years of any kind
of formal schooling unlike his future
adversary will pay fool he was not an
educated man according to one of the
legends from his youth he tried to
avenge his father's death and in
carrying out the act they used a little
too much force had to flee his hometown
and with limited options
Chung Sol in joined the army and saw
action and the sino-japanese war and
after that he ended up taking a position
as a kind of security guard for his
father-in-law's village now in these
times
roving bandit kings were endemic all
over northern China they would march
into any number a quiet little villages
and just plunder the hell out of them
turn them upside down conscript a male
or two and move on to their next meal
villages and towns that could afford it
would recruit a small militia to protect
them from this early 20th century
scourge that a name for these security
guards or
roving militias and they called them red
beards Hong who'd soo-jung so Lynn had
the good fortune to end up in the right
place at the right time on a number of
occasions he and a couple others who
would become part of his inner circle
rose up to positions of power fighting
against these bandits at the provincial
level and he also stood by the Ching
government side during the Boxer
Rebellion and during the russo-japanese
war he fought on Japan's side and used
his army to her
ask the Russians and as far as Jung saw
aliens association with the Japanese
that support he gave Japan during that
war ended up being the beginning of a
beautiful relationship for a while by
1907 after folding his troops into the
provincial army Zhang Xiao Lin was
commanding his own battalion at the time
of the Wu Chun uprising 1911 at the
behest of the governor-general he put
down the revolutionary forces there and
helped keep Shenyang and all of Liaoning
loyal to the Emperor at least until a
better offer came now upon the
establishment of the Republic of China
Jang Selene ended up getting in real
tight with you and sure Kai and by now
at the command of his own division and
these forces became the core of his
military power I said that last episode
the command given to these Bey young
generals by your insurer Chi their rank
and the troops that came with that rank
served as their elite personal army
later on and in return for backing your
Anne in his run for the Emperor ship
Jang was made governor-general of funk
in and really as I said before with Wong
jong-un in Hope a that's all you needed
that was the golden ticket you had to
hold in order to become a warlord in
this way not only did Jung so lean
command the military but he had his
hands and all the controls of the
civilian government as well and after un
died and that free-for-all happened
whenever he governor-general began to
transform into a warlord and their
respective provinces Jong Saleem was no
exception he kicked out the governor's
general of the other two provinces and
filled those spots with his own nominees
and by doing so he took over all three
provinces that made up Manchuria these
two other military governors these do
tunes put in place by Jang now they were
able to run their respective provinces
like any other
warlord but always deferred to junk so
lean in all matters that he got involved
in remember when all this happened
Dwan she really had taken over from you
and sure kai and in order to consolidate
his power he needed to make a lot of
friends so he won Jong so lean over to
his side by pointing him Inspector
General of the eastern three provinces
and once he got comfortable there in
those Eastern three provinces of
Manchuria Chang so lien continued to put
together his own power base that
included local military officers and
other elites of the realm and as I said
this became known as the Fung ten cleek
the on way and Jurlique leaks will try
to win him over to their side but jung
always looked out for number one first
and always and he ran these three
provinces of northeast china with his
iron a fist as any warlord he had to
constantly fight off attempts by the
central government to dilute his control
of Manchuria by sending all these
appointees in his direction but Jang was
very adept at keeping the central
government at bay and controlling all of
Manchuria by himself and even though it
was technically part of the Republic of
China he negotiated directly with
foreign powers sign treaties cut deals
everyone who had an ounce of political
astuteness knew Jang Solon was the
ultimate authority in that northeast
corner of China anyway later on after he
had consolidated all his power in
Manchuria his attention turned southward
in the direction of northern China and
this ambition he had to take Beijing for
himself would end up conflicting with
the interests of Tao kun and will pay
fool but for now the enemy of my enemy
is my friend and in this war that was
brewing Jang saline took the side of
that surely cleek against duan cheery in
his own wake leak armies surely an way
now from 10 these three warlord groups
all contending in the north and remember
whoever controlled Beijing well that was
the official government of China that
world leaders and diplomats dealt with
not to mention the bankers as well and
because the northern government was so
fractured and unable to agree on
anything
and we remember China in 1919 got taken
to the cleaners of the Treaty of
Versailles so this Manchurian warlord he
was quite good at building bonds between
himself and his key military allies and
it didn't stop there that surely font an
alliance also sought to build strategic
bridges with southern warlords in Quang
she and you none and as the drumbeat got
louder other warlords in central and
eastern China will line up what's how
kun and will pay fool against Duan shear
a in this on wage early war this had all
been brewing for a while what really
started up the Gears of War involved a
political crisis that followed Duan she
raised incursions into Outer Mongolia he
had sent one of his top generals there
to take back Outer Mongolia for the
Republic of China as I said Chung so
lean didn't like that having on quake
leaked forces this close to Manchuria
that was too close for comfort and for
sure that surely faction wasn't happy so
after one of Duan right-hand men
shoo-shoo Chung took his armies into
Mongolia the fung 10 enter leaked leaks
ended up becoming strange bedfellows for
this war against duan zong-de forces Shu
Shu Chung was the de facto leader of the
unfuckin a very close Condren of duan
she ray remember them from last episode
the on foo club because was located on
an Phu Lane in Beijing this was the
political arm of Duan she raised whole
onwe organization and they dominated the
Beijing government
shoe got yanked out of Mongolia by the
compromised president who I mentioned
last time someone having the confusingly
similar name of shoe sure Chung
two-shoes with the ain't on the same
side being challenged so blatantly like
this do one had no choice but to pull
Shu Shu Jung's army out of Mongolia and
get them heading in a southerly
direction towards Beijing to take on
their Cheerilee enemies duan and Xu Shu
Jung of the on quake league versus the
combined forces of the journey and from
ten klicks and the prize was control of
the bay young organization that operated
all the buttons and levers of the
northern government based in Beijing bad
blood had a rose between these two
opposing factions ever since the hufa
Eun dong the constitutional protection
movement with everyone now in control of
their own armies and was so much at
stake in this post-world War one period
in China the battles began now towards
the end of 1919 Lupe Phu had already
cemented alliances between his surely
clique and Tang Jia of the Union clique
and Liu dong ting of the guanxi clique
and they as well as other warlords in
central and northern China all ganged up
on Tuan cheer a in his own wake League
and to light this powder keg the shot
across the bow that sparked this and
wage early war this first open warfare
between the once unified Bay young
warlords was the opened announcement of
Duan cheer a signed by all of Lupe foods
warlord allies no words were minced and
Duan was called out for his traitorous
deeds primarily with respect to the
nishihara loans so between being dissed
by having his guy pulled out of outer
mongolia and all that drubbing he was
getting in the media from stories
planted by Shirley cleek leaders he had
to respond and like I said at the outset
this war didn't last
long it took place about fifty miles
south of Beijing the ant way armies led
by Duan Shu Shu Chun and shoot on thumb
went on the offensive and had a few good
days until will pay Fu's armies turn
everything around with July 17th were in
the year 1920 whoop a Fu's troops
overwhelmed the on clay armies and
captured the general Xu Tong Fung and
Jon tolian was holding down the fort 250
miles to the east right where the great
wall meets the ball I see as soon as
things took a turn for the worse for the
on way forces
Changjo aliens from TN army attacked
from the east and everything fell apart
for Duan shear a it was so much
firepower from all directions lined up
against him the odds weren't good to
begin with but with Chun soil in moving
in hard and fast from the east it ended
quickly and with Duan shear a on the run
the victorious surely and from 10 clicks
took over the reins of power in the
Beijing government whatever unity that
once existed in the bay young
organization those days were now over so
July 1920 there's a new team in control
of the northern government Duan cheer a
had run it since you ensure Chi died in
June 1916 Xu sure Chung remained the
President of the Republic serving till
June 19-22 Duan cheer a with this defeat
was no longer an important player and
from now on he stays in the back seat
until he's dragged back into the
government from 1924 to 1926 as a
compromise chief executive of the
Republic we'll get to that and part 6 or
7 until then Duan kept a low profile
living inside the Japanese settlement in
Tianjin and later in Shanghai in his
retirement he had become an extremely
devout Buddhist and found solace in the
religion till his death in November 1936
in 1920 the Envoy klieg
well it didn't disappear but it's sort
of dissolved and most of the officers
and politicians either went in the
direction of Fung TN or Cheerilee
this was quite a victory for junk oil in
Lupe Fu's armies had done all the heavy
lifting and defeating the on way army
junks Orleans troops did more mopping up
than anything but like I said he was
good at capitalizing on whatever
opportunities came his way so these two
victorious factions Jencks Orleans
Fontaine cleek and whoop a fool and so
Koons Jurlique League they formed a
coalition government and quotation marks
around that word coalition and in less
than two years the Manchurian warlord
and the jade marshal will pay foo and
they'll be at each other's throats and
right as this journey on way war ends
there's a terrible famine in North China
most affected were the people of
Cheerilee Shandong Xiang XI Shan she and
her nan this was known as the Great
North China famine of the winter of
nineteen twenty twenty-one thanks to
incredible humanitarian efforts only
half a million peasants perished and
this natural disaster but there were
other famines and natural disasters
around China that happened during these
years at the dawn of the 1920s
warlordism wasn't the direct cause of
these famines but it was an additional
layer of misery at it on top of the
breakdown and law and order and how that
affected the peasantry and their daily
lives anyway up in Beijing as I
indicated cordial relations between
whoop a fool and Jang Saline in no time
at all were starting to break down
Chang toll in he had a lot of ambition
and was very much intent on squeezing
out will pay full seizing sole control
of the government and then unify China
by defeating
the southern warlords a similar dream
like Xiang Yu and the Obon once had
going back over 21 centuries before and
will pay full well he had the same idea
so you know where this is heading
whoever controlled the historic and
symbolic city of Beijing was in the eyes
of those inside and outside China the
legitimate government to the country and
Beijing was only big enough for one
warlord and one of them had to go and it
ran deeper than this wheels within
wheels the Western nations with a finger
in China's pie
well they mostly lined up behind will
pay fool and as I mentioned even though
it was no less a patriot than any other
leader Jang Saline had Japan watching
his back with this competition between
the two warlord clicks it was only a
matter of time before something would
ignite the powder keg Jiang saw a Lin
went and did a sneaky thing he installed
one of his men
Liang sure Yi is premier a very bold
power move that would have given Chang
control of the government through the
Office of premier and we've mentioned
Liang Shuri before in previous episodes
he was one of you and sure Kai's
political cronies going way back as soon
as will pay Fuu found out what junk so
lien had gone and done his outrage was
predictable and after Leung sure Yi
started holding up government funds that
should have gone in the direction of
that surely cleek that was it
decisions were being made in Beijing
independence of will pay foo which made
a mockery of the whole idea of a
coalition government Leung sure he was
forced by will pay foo to resign after a
month and then these two sides geared up
for battle and like that early on kwai
war this one known as the first surely
funk in war and it was quick to April
May and June 19-22
where was it fought yeah same as before
south of Beijing and Tianjin Oh
the course of the fighting jeongsu leans
forces appeared to have this one in the
bag
he attacked on two fronts from the east
and west
at first he pushed will pay Fu's armies
back on their heels but for the second
time as he had done against the on way
forces who paifu outsmarted outflanked
and outperformed his opponents main army
and pushed them all the way to the China
coast to Shanghai Kwon will pay fool he
had a little help from former surely
troops who had defected to Jiang Saul
inside after the death of fungal Chun in
1919 and then rejoined surely forces
after the outbreak of this war let me
tell you they won't be the first army to
switch sides in the middle of a war and
change the tide of battle finally the
British had to be called in to broker a
peace as part of the deal
Jiang so lien had to remove his army
from south of Shanghai Quan over near
Ching Wong dal in hebei province still
called Cheerilee provinces all this is
happening
John's armies suffered 70,000 killed
wounded or captured and in these times
desertion was also rampant he had to
start rebuilding at once so either way
you look at it the first surely Funke in
war was a bitter defeat for gentle in
and once john Solon was safely back in
Manchuria after suffering this defeats
on the military and political
battlefield
Lupe Phu and that surely cleek scraped
away all remnant fung 10 cleek men out
of any position of power in beijing and
now they ran it for themselves and with
the fung 10 click no longer in positions
of power in Beijing the Japanese weren't
happy about the outcome either and with
will pay foo a well-known Japan hater
and charge and the things weren't gonna
be easy for them in North China and here
is where we'll pay
over the next two years rose to become
the most powerful and prominent leader
in northern and central China
jeongsu Lin continued to tightly control
Manchuria no one could challenge him on
his home turf he had declared autonomy
in Manchuria and stood a band apart from
the Beijing government now dominated by
will pay foo and the Jerle politicians
and militaries in all the provinces of
the north all the way down to hold on
we'll pay foo to varying degrees
controlled what went on there and as I
said September 1924 Time magazine had
him on their cover and not more than two
weeks after will pay fumet the cover a
time he and Chun Saleem were added again
in the second surely funk in war I'm not
gonna get into that here we'll save that
for next time by listening to these
episodes you think these wars were all
that was going on in China
well that was hardly the case with no
one single Emperor or King or party
chairman in charge of the whole country
they were sideshows going on all over
the place in Xinjiang in Tibet in
Guangzhou and Hong Kong
guanxi and all those southern provinces
Shanghai in the 1920s what we've looked
at from all kinds of angles that whole
world that evokes a thousand images and
culture entertainment and commerce that
too was all happening during these
warlord years well the list of warlords
is getting longer and longer and these
were just the major ones in the first
surely Funke anwar it was more than junk
Soylent and we'll pay feu commanding
troops I'm going out of my way to spear
you from too many names raining down on
you but everything's all organized for
you in a list of terms found at the tea
cup top media website will pick up in
part six with the continuation of this
story and the lead-up to the second
and surely Funke Tanwar i'll give you a
hint
this one turns out a little better for
the Manchurian warlord and how can we
talk about the second
Cheerilee Fontan war without introducing
fungus young the christian warlord he's
a favorite of many another colorful
character from this miserable time even
in our day and all our news feeds and on
TV we can see cities and countries
around the world that are wrecked with
civil war political division and human
suffering well this kind of thing is as
old as history itself and in the 1920s
it was China's turn to be the one hit
with this instability and like it is
everywhere the peasants and common
people trying to survive the times
inevitably suffer the greatest I don't
want you to lose hope these warlords
they do finally get neutralized and
we'll get to that happy ending I assure
you once again thanks to everyone who
have signed up to support me in the CHP
at patreon.com I hope you're enjoying
that recent story about me in the World
Cup trophy patreon.com if you'd like to
give a small monthly donation or if your
plain old just don't like this model you
can always donate to the official CHP
PayPal account at China history podcast
at gmail.com my greatest and most
heartfelt thanks either way okay that's
it for now everyone lászló Montgomery
here signing off from Los Angeles
California on a gorgeous November day I
had to turn on my AC today it was so hot
think about coming back again once more
with feeling for part 6 in our
ever-expanding Warlord's series here at
the China history podcast